README.md, before:

# [DiscordAutoReactBot](https://github.com/DaniSprague/DiscordAutoReactBot)

This bot automatically reacts to user's messages with their favorite emoji on Discord.

__WARNING:__ AutoReact is in early development, and is only updated when @DaniSprague has time. A lot of functionality is still missing, although AutoReact is now considered to be at v0.3. Use this at your own risk!

## Usage

AutoReact supports several commands. To use any of these commands, users should direct message the bot on Discord with any of the following:

| __Prefix__ | __Command__ | __Arguments__ | __Functionality__ | __Example__ |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| !AutoReact | .disable | *none* | Removes the user's reaction emoji | `!AutoReact.disable` |
| !AutoReact | .help | *none* | Messages the user with help info | `!AutoReact.help` |
| !AutoReact | .set | emoji | Sets the user's reaction emoji | `!AutoReact.set 🤔` |

## Functionality

Once the user sets their preferred emoji using `!AutoReact set`, then AutoReact will react to that user's messages with the set emoji in servers where AutoReact is enabled.

### Cooldowns

Anytime a message to a user is sent or a reaction is made, the cooldown timer is reset. The following table shows the cooldown times:

| Action | Cooldown (seconds) |
| --- | --- |
| Reaction to emoji | 300 |
| Help message sent | 120 |
| Error setting reaction emoji | 30 |

## Installation

In order to get AutoReact running on your local machine, the following steps should work:

1. Pull this repository onto a local machine.
2. Create the `.env` file with the private key info.
    * The `.env` file should be in the same directory as `bot.py`.
    * The format of `.env` should be two lines as follows:

    ```none
    DISCORD_TOKEN=[PRIVATE_TOKEN]

    ```

    * The private token can be found on the Discord Developer Portal

3. Install [`discord.py`](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html), [`emoji`](https://github.com/carpedm20/emoji/), and [`python-dotenv`](https://saurabh-kumar.com/python-dotenv/) using a Python package manager.
4. Run `bot.py` from a command line.

[This article](https://realpython.com/how-to-make-a-discord-bot-python/) provides additional details on handling the Discord Developer Portal to get the bot running on a local installation. It also covers how to add the bot to a Discord server.

There are plans to provide both a Docker Image and the ability to load the bot on one's own server from a hosted installation, but those are not yet ready.

## Roadmap

This project is still quite lacking. One goal is to get the Wiki up and running for a more formal roadmap. Until then, [the Milestones portion of the Issues tab](https://github.com/DaniSprague/DiscordAutoReactBot/milestones) should give a good idea of what is needed for each version.

Currently, the project is considered to be in v0.2.

## Code Styling

This project uses [YAPF](https://github.com/google/yapf) to format the code, using the config in the included `.style.yapf` file. For comments and docstrings, the [Google Python Style Guide](https://github.com/google/styleguide/blob/gh-pages/pyguide.md#s3.8-comments-and-docstrings) is followed.

## Why?

This project sprung out of the COVID-19 pandemic when @DaniSprague desired something to work on. Checking their list of ideas, they saw an auto-reacting Discord bot listed. They thought it would be a most excellent idea as it would improve their Python skills and help them learn how to work with APIs (even if it was entirely wrapped in a Python package).

As to why the project idea came into existence in the first place, there was a joke about emojis and wholesomeness in a Discord chat. It is not a very deep story.

## Thanks

This project would have been infinitely more difficult without [realpython.com's wonderful tutorial on making a Discord bot in Python](https://realpython.com/how-to-make-a-discord-bot-python/). The basic template code came from there.

Additionally, shout-out to the maintainers and authors of all of the Python packages used in this project.

Commit message:

Swap out the JSON database for a SQLite database
All code for the old JSON database has now been removed. The database is now handled via SQLite3, and all methods have been switched over. README and .gitignore have been updated accordingly.

README.md, after:

# [DiscordAutoReactBot](https://github.com/DaniSprague/DiscordAutoReactBot)

This bot automatically reacts to user's messages with their favorite emoji on Discord.

__WARNING:__ AutoReact is in early development, and is only updated when @DaniSprague has time. A lot of functionality is still missing, although AutoReact is now considered to be at v0.3. Use this at your own risk!

## Usage

AutoReact supports several commands. To use any of these commands, users should direct message the bot on Discord with any of the following:

| __Prefix__ | __Command__ | __Arguments__ | __Functionality__ | __Example__ |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| !AutoReact | .disable | *none* | Removes the user's reaction emoji | `!AutoReact.disable` |
| !AutoReact | .help | *none* | Messages the user with help info | `!AutoReact.help` |
| !AutoReact | .set | emoji | Sets the user's reaction emoji | `!AutoReact.set 🤔` |

## Functionality

Once the user sets their preferred emoji using `!AutoReact set`, then AutoReact will react to that user's messages with the set emoji in servers where AutoReact is enabled.

### Cooldowns

Anytime a message to a user is sent or a reaction is made, the cooldown timer is reset. The following table shows the cooldown times:

| Action | Cooldown (seconds) |
| --- | --- |
| Reaction to emoji | 300 |
| Help message sent | 120 |
| Error setting reaction emoji | 30 |

## Installation

In order to get AutoReact running on your local machine, the following steps should work:

1. Pull this repository onto a local machine.
2. Create the `.env` file with the private key info.
    * The `.env` file should be in the same directory as `bot.py`.
    * The format of `.env` should be two lines as follows:

    ```none
    DISCORD_TOKEN=[PRIVATE_TOKEN]

    ```

    * The private token can be found on the Discord Developer Portal

3. Install [`discord.py`](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html), [`emoji`](https://github.com/carpedm20/emoji/), and [`python-dotenv`](https://saurabh-kumar.com/python-dotenv/) using a Python package manager.
4. Change the save location of the database within _open_db() to 'AutoReact_prod.db'.
5. Run `bot.py` from a command line.

[This article](https://realpython.com/how-to-make-a-discord-bot-python/) provides additional details on handling the Discord Developer Portal to get the bot running on a local installation. It also covers how to add the bot to a Discord server.

There are plans to provide both a Docker Image and the ability to load the bot on one's own server from a hosted installation, but those are not yet ready.

## Roadmap

This project is still quite lacking. One goal is to get the Wiki up and running for a more formal roadmap. Until then, [the Milestones portion of the Issues tab](https://github.com/DaniSprague/DiscordAutoReactBot/milestones) should give a good idea of what is needed for each version.

Currently, the project is considered to be in v0.2.

## Code Styling

This project uses [YAPF](https://github.com/google/yapf) to format the code, using the config in the included `.style.yapf` file. For comments and docstrings, the [Google Python Style Guide](https://github.com/google/styleguide/blob/gh-pages/pyguide.md#s3.8-comments-and-docstrings) is followed.

## Why?

This project sprung out of the COVID-19 pandemic when @DaniSprague desired something to work on. Checking their list of ideas, they saw an auto-reacting Discord bot listed. They thought it would be a most excellent idea as it would improve their Python skills and help them learn how to work with APIs (even if it was entirely wrapped in a Python package).

As to why the project idea came into existence in the first place, there was a joke about emojis and wholesomeness in a Discord chat. It is not a very deep story.

## Thanks

This project would have been infinitely more difficult without [realpython.com's wonderful tutorial on making a Discord bot in Python](https://realpython.com/how-to-make-a-discord-bot-python/). The basic template code came from there.

Additionally, shout-out to the maintainers and authors of all of the Python packages used in this project.
